# Bookmarker:

A small web based application which brings browser bookmark feature to web. The application is built using Node JS with Mongo DB as its backend storage and Backbone JS for client side UI rendering. Node JS is used to build APIs for the front-end to consume it.

Description:
A simple web app which lets you :
1. Add and Delete bookmarks.
2. Organize bookmarks into folders.


Completed:
1. CRUD APIs in Node JS.
2. Front-end screens using HTML and Jquery Mobile.
3. Basic code structure for Backbone. Ideally the HTML should be rendered from Backbone.


What is Pending ?
1. Integration of backend Node APIs with front end.
2. Hosting application.

### Learnings:
1. Although there are a lot of blogs and tutorials which help you around with Backbone JS, it took some time to get hang of it. What are Models ? Do I really need to use this ? Where do views fit in ? Should I render HTML directly from Backbone views OR use object based HTML rendering.The 'El' classico too.

2. During development, the Node server was running in port 3000, where as the HTML serving Apache server ran in port 80. This led to CORS problem when trying to access the backend APIs. I had to make some changes in the node server to accept requests from localhost port 80 as well. Not sure if this is the right way-need to figure out how others do it.

3. Faced issues in deploying application to Heroku. Heroku kept complaining about buildpack failure. I tried the following things:
   a.) Explicitly mention the buildpack to be used (heroku/nodejs).
   b.) For some reason, I left package.json out of version control and instead had the node_modules versioned. Turns out Heroku does not like this. Not.One.Bit. So, I set things up correctly but no success. Will comeback to this again.

4. The mongoose node module which helps connecting to a mongo database kept adding its own field('__v') to every record. Initially I thought it was similar to the '_id' generated by mongo itself. Later did I know that this was actually done by Mongoose to maintain a version to solve a weird problem. Read here: http://aaronheckmann.tumblr.com/post/48943525537/mongoose-v3-part-1-versioning.

5. Mongo Data model: In this app, a bookmark can be arranged into folders. The usual data model in relational database would have been a folder table and a bookmark table with a folder ID to relate it. So, I can make a join to fetch the data. I ended up using this any way for mongo db too. But another possible way is to have folders in a collection and have bookmarks as embedded documents inside folders. This is more Mongoish . Something to consider at the very beginning of a project.
